Join me on Developer Thoughts (https://egvijayanand.in/), an exclusive blog for articles on Xamarin.Forms, .NET MAUI, and Blazor.

This VS extension does not gather any usage or telemetry data, even anonymously, ensuring that you can use it freely and with complete privacy assurance.

What's new in ver. 1.10.2.0:
----------------------------
1. Introduced an option to support the XML-based solution file (slnx) format.

This would be an explicit option since the SLNX feature is currently in the preview stage and is only supported on VS2022.

2. Introduced the option to include a reference to the PolySharp NuGet package.

v1.9.0.0:

Introduced an option to reference Xamarin.Forms.Maps NuGet package.

While using the generic item template, support for adding Xamarin Community Toolkit namespace while defining base types with that particular xmlns scope (xct).

v1.8.0.0:

Introduced using the NuGet CPM feature from within Visual Studio IDE.

v1.7.0.0:

An innovative Xamarin.Forms generic item template, in XAML and C#, for creating items of any type from within Visual Studio 2022 IDE.

Both need one required input, the base type (select a value from the predefined ones or enter a value).

Optionally takes another input, to specify the generic base type.

In addition, the XAML template takes one more input (xaml only), when opted, generates only XAML definition.

Note: Namespace resolution in both XAML and C# file is left to the user as deriving them with the template is outside its scope.

Tip: For XAML template, pass the xmlns scope as part of the input parameter value and it'll be used appropriately in the generated source files.

Tip: Tip: Use local scope to refer to the types in the same directory like Views. For example, local:BasePage

v1.6.0.0:

1. Introduced an option to add a reference to Xamarin.Essentials.Interfaces NuGet package, an explicit option.

v1.5.0.0:

1. Introduced an option to add references to all supported NuGet packages as a unified option

2. Option to add reference to the Shared Toolkit NuGet package

v1.4.4.0:

1. Package versions bumped to pull the latest stable version.

v1.4.3.0:

1. An item template for defining the Shell Page in C#.

2. Dependent NuGet package versions have been made dynamic to pull the latest stable version.

Xamarin.Forms - 5.0.0.x
Xamarin.Essentials - 1.7.x
Xamarin.CommunityToolkit - 2.0.x
Xamarin.CommunityToolkit.Markup - 2.0.x

v1.4.2.0:

A little housekeeping to improve the reliability of the templates.

v1.4.0.0:

1. Included an option to add reference Xamarin.Essentials NuGet package during Xamarin.Forms class library creation.

2. Added new item templates for Forms Page and View in C#.

Older versions:

Included the IsExternalInit class definition in the library project template to make use of C# 9.0 features such as Records.

This VS extension is loaded with a Project template for creating a Xamarin.Forms Class Library.

This project template has the provision to optionally include the officially supported CommunityToolkit NuGet packages.

And Item templates for (made available in the Xamarin.Forms section):

1. Shell Page
2. Resource Dictionary
3. Resource Dictionary (XAML only)
